# =============================================================================
# Dockerfile.mediawiki — MediaWiki for ECS Fargate (ARM64)
# =============================================================================
#
# This image runs MediaWiki behind Apache with OIDC authentication.
# The ALB routes /wiki* requests to this container.
#
# Build (ARM64 for Graviton):
#   docker buildx build --platform linux/arm64 -f Dockerfile.mediawiki -t mediawiki .
#
# Runtime requirements:
#   - LocalSettings.php must be provided (via bind mount, EFS, or env var)
#   - RDS MySQL endpoint reachable from the container's security group
#   - OIDC credentials injected via environment variables
#   - Memcache service reachable at memcache.puzzleboss.local:11211
#
# The official MediaWiki image already includes Apache + PHP + MediaWiki core.
# We add: mod_auth_openidc, Auth_remoteuser extension, S3 image support.
# =============================================================================

FROM mediawiki:1.44

# Install OIDC module for Apache, git (extensions), unzip (composer)
# Note: The official MediaWiki image already includes apcu, intl,
# mysqli, mbstring, etc. — compiled from source via docker-php-ext-install.
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends \
        libapache2-mod-auth-openidc \
        git \
        unzip \
    && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

# Enable Apache modules
RUN a2enmod auth_openidc remoteip rewrite headers

# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Auth_remoteuser extension — trusts REMOTE_USER set by mod_auth_openidc
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
RUN cd /var/www/html/extensions && \
    git clone --depth 1 --branch REL1_44 \
        https://gerrit.wikimedia.org/r/mediawiki/extensions/Auth_remoteuser && \
    rm -rf Auth_remoteuser/.git

# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
# AWS extension — S3-backed file storage for uploads and thumbnails
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Replaces local filesystem with S3. Fargate containers have ephemeral
# storage, so uploaded images would be lost without this.
# Uses ECS task role for credentials (no keys in LocalSettings.php).
RUN cd /var/www/html/extensions && \
    git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/edwardspec/mediawiki-aws-s3.git AWS && \
    rm -rf AWS/.git

# Install composer and pull in the AWS extension's dependencies (AWS SDK)
COPY --from=composer:2 /usr/bin/composer /usr/bin/composer
# phpunit is in MediaWiki's require-dev (not shipped, --no-dev skips install) but
# Composer 2.7 block-insecure fires during resolution regardless. Ignoring advisory
# PKSA-z3gr-8qht-p93v specifically (phpunit test-double exploit, irrelevant in prod).
# COMPOSER_HOME scoped to this RUN only — not persisted as an image ENV.
RUN mkdir -p /tmp/composer-home && \
    echo '{"config":{"audit":{"ignore":["PKSA-z3gr-8qht-p93v"]}}}' > /tmp/composer-home/config.json && \
    cd /var/www/html && \
    echo '{"extra":{"merge-plugin":{"include":["extensions/AWS/composer.json"]}}}' > composer.local.json && \
    COMPOSER_HOME=/tmp/composer-home composer update --no-dev --no-interaction --prefer-dist && \
    rm -rf /usr/bin/composer /tmp/composer-home

# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Apache configuration for production (behind ALB)
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COPY docker/mediawiki/apache-mediawiki.conf /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf

# Trust ALB X-Forwarded-For headers
RUN echo "RemoteIPHeader X-Forwarded-For" > /etc/apache2/conf-available/remoteip.conf \
    && a2enconf remoteip

# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Entrypoint
# ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
COPY docker/mediawiki/docker-entrypoint-mediawiki.sh /usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint-mediawiki.sh
RUN chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint-mediawiki.sh

EXPOSE 80

HEALTHCHECK --interval=30s --timeout=5s --start-period=30s --retries=3 \
    CMD curl -f http://localhost/wiki/Main_Page || exit 1

ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint-mediawiki.sh"]
CMD ["apache2-foreground"]
